Thread



    in computer
    there is a software

                and os


        os supports multiple process  running at an same time .  the multiple task can be achived by time sharing in java.

        but in an single sw  can perform multiuple task like  eg ) Note pad  one thread find error and another thread can write


        🔹 Process: When you run multiple software applications (e.g., Chrome, VS Code, and Eclipse), each software runs as a separate process in the OS.

        🔹 Threads: Inside a single software (e.g., Chrome), multiple tasks run simultaneously as threads (e.g., one thread loads a webpage, another plays a video, another handles user input).




Scheduler helps to which threads to run to execute




 diff

   shares the same memory eith other threads                   . it has sepereate memory.
   Execution speed faster                                        slower compared to thread








MULTITHREAD

-> Multi-threading in Java is the ability to run multiple threads concurrently within a single process to maximize CPU utilization.
-> Each thread is an independent path of execution, running separately but sharing the same memory space.
-> java provides built in support in java    using thread class and runnable interface

Thread
 A thread in Java is the smallest unit of execution within a process.
  It is a lightweight subprocess that allows parallel execution of tasks.

 2. How do you create a thread in Java?
:
 *"There are two ways to create a thread in Java:

 Extending the Thread class – by overriding the run() method.
 Implementing the Runnable interface – by passing an instance to the Thread constructor."*


class MyThread extends Thread {
    public void run() {
    System.out.println("Thread running...");

     }
}
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        MyThread t1 = new MyThread();
        t1.start(); // Creates a new thread and call run method intenally
    }


}




3. What is the difference between start() and run() method?

"The start() method creates a new thread and executes the run() method in that thread, allowing concurrent execution.

The run() method, when called directly, runs in the same thread as the caller and does not create a new thread."
does not provide multitread fbenefits


5. What are different thread states in Java?
Answer:
Java threads have six states in the Thread.State enum:

NEW – Thread is created but not started.
RUNNABLE – Thread is ready to run and waiting for CPU.
BLOCKED – Thread is waiting for a monitor lock.
WAITING – Thread is waiting indefinitely for another thread’s signal.
TIMED_WAITING – Thread is waiting for a specific time.
TERMINATED – Thread has finished execution.







